Business Intelligence(BI): Science of collecting and processing data
End goal: To make better decisions

Data to Insights flow:

	Capturing----------------Processing-------------Deriving Insights
(Structured, semi-       (Storage, Enrichment)       (Data visualisation)
structured,unstructured)

ETL: Get data from different sources and combine them into one for processing
(Extract, Transform and Load)


BI system are used to:
Maintain
Optimise
Streamline current operations
Improve and maintain ops. efficiency and helps business increase org. productivity.
Powerful reporting and Data analysis

BI Tools:
Data visualisation
Data warehouse and data marts
Data mining - process of analysing the large vol. of data to get insights 
Reporting
OLTP and OLAP - Online Transaction Processing (for real time data, ex. ATM)
		    Online Analytical Processing (for historical data)



Traditional Data Warehousing and BI:
Different Layers:-
Data source layer - Staging layer - Foundation layer - Access layer - Presentation layer
			ETL 		    ETL 		   DW Tools   	BI Tools

Data Source Layer: Decide which data will be loaded into the system
Staging Layer: Temporary storage of data to be loaded in Data warehouse
Foundation Layer: Data warehouse, used for reporting. Scalable DB storing historical enterprise data
Access Layer: Data mart, OLAP, data mining
Presentation Layer: Need to gather req. from Business units for visualisation and touvh points. Creating dashboards, reports and alerts that present findings.


Dashboard: Place to get various info on a single page.






Data Analytics
---------------

- Interpretation of data to derive meaningful business insights that enable firms to make data driven decions.

Data analytics VS Business intelligence: 
In BI, we make decisions, act based on insights we get from analysis. 
No Decision making taking place after analysis.

Analytics is used to get the useful information from the data.

Data -> Info -> Knowledge -> Action



Raw Data- This data doesn't make any sense very hard to find any insights
Preparation- Prepare the Raw data to get some insights
Analysis and Visualisation- Get the full picture of the data
Insights- Get it after visualisation


Data Analysis Life Cycle:
Raw Data <-> Data Understanding -> Data Preparations -> Analysing and Visualisation -> Insights


Types of Business Analystics (BA)
-Descriptive Analytics: What happened?
-Diagnostic Analytics: Why it happened?
-Predictive Analytics: What might happen?
-Prescriptive Analytics: What to do next?


BI: Current data to optimise the current situation
BA: Analyse data to make business prepare for future




Data Visualisation
-------------------


Visualisation helps us in understanding the data better


Data Visualisation: take data sets and display that in graphics, charts, figures and bars.
Turning data into a visual narrative via storyboarding or the animation of the static data.

We're faster when we can 'see' the data


Best Practices while creating Visualisation:
-Choose the right presentation chart types


Application of BI:
-Marketing and customer intelligence
-Risk Management
-Supply chain
-Fraud Detection